## Data Lake

# about project

A music streaming startup, Sparkify, has grown their user base and song database and want to move their processes and data onto the cloud. Their data resides in S3.

our task is building an ETL pipeline that extracts their data from S3, processes them using Spark, and loads the data back into S3 as a set of dimensional tables. This will allow their analytics team to continue finding insights in what songs their users are listening to.


# about data

- Song Dataset

The first dataset is a subset of real data from the Million Song Dataset. Each file is in JSON format and contains metadata about a song and the artist of that song. The files are partitioned by the first three letters of each song's track ID. For example, here are file paths to two files in this dataset.
- Log Dataset

The second dataset consists of log files in JSON format generated by this event simulator based on the songs in the dataset above. These simulate app activity logs from an imaginary music streaming app based on configuration settings.

The log files in the dataset you'll be working with are partitioned by year and month. For example, here are file paths to two files in this dataset.

# Overview

this project about making Etl pipeline 

- Etract data from s3 bucket.
- transform it to informative tables.
- load them in s3 Buckets.


# fact Table
songplays - records in event data associated with song plays i.e. records with page NextSong
{songplay_id, start_time, user_id, level, song_id, artist_id, session_id, location, user_agent}.

# dimensional tables

- users - users in the app
{user_id, first_name, last_name, gender, level}
- songs 
{song_id, title, artist_id, year, duration}
- artists
{artist_id, name, location, lattitude, longitude}
- time - timestamps of records in songplays broken down into specific units
{start_time, hour, day, week, month, year, weekday}


# files 

- dwh.cfg

put all aws configurations

 - etl.py
 
   extract data from s3 files and load into s3 bucket after process in set of dimensional tables.
 
 # aws_services uses
 
 - s3
 - iam (user )
 - EMR(pyspark)
 
 # other tools
 
 - python(configparser,datetime,spark)
 
 
 # how to run the Python scripts
 
 after making all scripts run etl.py

